AWS, Git, Linux 
Assessment Plan for Collabra
Prepared by beCloudReady

OVERVIEW & PURPOSE
Assessment readiness for AWS, Git and Linux skills

Short Answer

1.	Highlight few differences between Block storage ( EBS ) & Object storage (s3)

Answer:
EBS involves installing an operating system by attaching an EBS volume to an EC2 instance, while S3 is a form of online storage
with bucket organization that does not involve an OS installation to access it. While both are fast, EBS is faster. EBS has redundancy
across multiple servers in an Availability Zone with a specified storage size associated with either magnetic or SSD disk drives that
determine pricing of resources, while S3 has a larger scale redundancy across multiple facilities in a Region and does not have a 
dependency on specified types of disk drives in its allocation of resources.

2.	Highlight few differences between NoSQL & SQL databases

Answer:
SQL (Structured Query Language) applies to relational databases comprised of tables with columns and rows (with each row having a unique key),
while NoSQL can be applied to nonrelational databases with alternative forms of structure. Relational databases have a stricter adherence to 
ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, Durability) to prevent errors and mishandling, while nonrelational databases will often compromise 
factors of ACID to favor availability and speed. While relational databases are quite useful under highly regulated conditions where high data 
integrity is a must, nonrelational databases are very useful in dynamic contexts with files like JSONs and XMLs that are regularly used in 
transmissions of information over the internet that tend to be rapid and variable.

3.	Highlight few differences between ssh & http protocol

Answer:
HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is a request-response protocol that serves as the foundation of communication over the world wide web. 
SSH (Secure Shell) offers a secure channel over unsecured networks through encryption by public-key cryptography. While SSH offers encryption 
for security, HTTP does not have encryption and is vulnerable to attacks. In response to this vulnerability, HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) 
has been implemented with greater regularity in recent years. For cloud computing, SSH is especially useful for securing access to a virtual machine. 
In the context of this course, we used private keys to establish a secure connection though SSH with EC2 instances in Linux shell.

Tasks 1

1.	Create a new ec2 instance & new key ( AWS Ohio region )

Instance id: i-0e91c23f5b9b36995
Key Name: collabera-ohio

Task 2

1.	Create a S3 bucket with <yourname>_final ( Ohio region )

Bucket name: jamesrichardsonfinal

2.	Create 2 IAM users, one with readonly s3 access, another with s3fullaccess

jlr has AmazonS3FullAccess and jlr2 has AmazonS3ReadOnly Access. 

Task 3:

1.	Upload the file https://github.com/becloudready/rds-headtutorials/blob/master/mysql/mysqlsampledatabase.sql into your s3 bucket
2.	Download the aforesaid uploaded ( mysqlsampledatabase.sql ) into your ec2 instance ( cmdline )
3.	Write the command that you used for step #2

#CODE (Here I apply the code from Postman and save to the file using > at the end.)
curl -X GET \
  https://jamesrichardsonfinal.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/mysqlsampledatabase.sql \
  -H 'Accept: */*' \
  -H 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
  -H 'Connection: keep-alive' \
  -H 'Host: jamesrichardsonfinal.s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com' \
  -H 'Postman-Token: bf6dcf75-421b-4e45-9a4d-d696f0bc7a8b,bcccb94e-05af-4af3-a91d-ea8d852b69c2' \
  -H 'User-Agent: PostmanRuntime/7.15.0' \
  -H 'accept-encoding: gzip, deflate' \
  -H 'cache-control: no-cache' > mysqlsampledatabase.sql

Task 4:

1.	On ec2 instance Count number of lines of the mysqldump file ( downloaded from s3)

#CODE – I used pipe with a command to count lines from the contents of the file.

cat mysqlsampledatabase.sql | wc -l 

#RESULT: 7930

2.	Create a new file from the file mysqlsampledatabase.sql where every word “mysql” is replaced with “yoursql” 

#CODE – Here I used sed to globally substitute instances of “mysql” with “yoursql” and saved it 
#to the file yoursqlsampledatabase.sql.

sed 's/mysql/yoursql/g' mysqlsampledatabase.sql > yoursqlsampledatabase.sql

3.	( bonus ) Count how many times word NULL appeared on mysqlsampledatabase.sql file.

#CODE – I used -o to find only matches of NULL and applied a word count (wc -w) with a pipe. 
#Note: wc -l also yields the same result since each match is listed on a separate line before the pipe is applied.

grep -o NULL  mysqlsampledatabase.sql | wc -w

#RESULT: 538

Task 5:

1.	Create an RDS MariaDB instance on AWS Ohio region.

Instance name: james-richardson-final-db

2.	Import the mysql dump file mysqlsampledatabase.sql into the RDS database

Task 6:

1.	Write an SQL query on the database created on step 5 : Select all customer names, and product names from the database in single query.

--All customer names with any corresponding product names over all orders:

select c.customerName, p.productName
from customers c
left join orders o on c.customerNumber = o.customerNumber
left join orderdetails od on o.orderNumber = od.orderNumber
left join products p on od.productCode = p.productCode;

Task 7:

1.	Push your each answer as separate git commit into a new repository called aws_assessment. ( Don’t put any AWS keys, secret, passwords into the commit, of delete the keys before you push them )

